have you ever wanted it in camera before
we're strapping on these cameras okay
shirt this shirt these glasses very
stylish
this one's my favorite a hidden camera
even inside this cup and going into this
rental company by Canada's biggest
airport economy rent-a-car hey folks at
marketplace we hear from many of you
about rental car companies but about
this particular location we're getting
especially concerning complaints from
viewers like Ryan Jones this business
must not be allowed to continue their
practice of misleading overcharging and
flat-out
bullying their customers into paying
them more than they deserve
misleading practices that's serious time
to book some cars and find out go and
yeah like many of our viewers we booked
from this economy rent-a-car location
through Expedia and we're going to kick
it up from the airport and we're about
to reveal how not to get ripped off by
any car rental company it's telling us
we have unlimited mileage that's right
says it here here and even here click on
the mileage tab and this pops up drive
unlimited distance with this car at no
extra cost right next do we want to add
collision damage plan no I have
insurance so we're good we've got auto
insurance so we decline theirs thank you
okay xxx advertised price tag with taxes
and fees 136 dollars it's one of the
cheapest we find we're good to go get to
cup and we get these viewers to book
more so I'm going to be rescue vehicle
from economy through Expedia for a total
of three pickups all on the same day
with economy rent-a-car again
and I'm really nervous about this
because it was not a good experience
last time it's time fed up with their
rental car ripoffs these two Ryan's are
ready to fight back how are you feeling
a little nervous why are you nervous
because I don't like being treated
clearly and I think it's gonna happen
again if it does it's all going to be on
camera and don't be nervous
Jeremy's right here to help you I got
you you got me I got you all right let's
go
team one Ryan and marketplace producer
Jeremy so I can see myself pretty
clearly if that looks good same team to
Ryan and producer Katelyn ready to go
see you guys in a bit
[Music]
Bryan sills is drawn in by the promise
of a great deal with unlimited
kilometers I rented it for brother's
bachelor party we were going down to
Washington don't ask don't ask why we're
going there for a bachelor party
one of the reasons why you booked with
economy was for the unlimited kilometers
did you get them I did not get them in
numerous sections online it said
unlimited kilometers so when I went in
to rent it that's when he pointed out to
me you will only get 200 corners a day
what did you think about that I thought
it was incredibly deceptive and Ryan
Jones took a real hit when it came to
extra fees when I got there the quote
was completely off they had an
additional fee required for insurance
which added something like $80 around
that to the rental price $80 more that's
a big jump there's got to be rules
around price hikes turns out there are
the Competition Bureau clamps down on
car rental companies for false and
misleading advertising starting in 2016
avis and budget 2017 Hertz 2018
Enterprise the big companies pay big
fines for charging extra fees not
included in their advertised prices but
what about the smaller players such as
economy rent-a-car what's happening
inside this location
[Music]
wait what we booked unlimited seems like
this rep doesn't have an answer for us
wow that's not on the minute kilometers
that's called 200 kilometres a day money
grab meet the National Director of the
Auto Protection Agency Georgina
we show them what's happening at this
economy rent-a-car well if you came from
Mars and we're renting the car to travel
you would have unlimited Columbus that's
what I understood back on hidden camera
our team pushes back
but the rep says it's not their fault
why doesn't it see mileage under the
mileage is actually you have to give
them we're gonna toss the video these
are your rules and regulations and
restrictions so do what
so who's to blame here economy are
Expedia if you don't find it on the
Expedia website on what you book then
there is a problem and Expedia is
involved as well as a rental company
it's not just this economy it's an issue
for some other small rental companies
too when we contact Expedia they thanked
us for alerting them and say they will
review how they display mileage so no
unlimited kilometers for any of us up
next we're talking insurance
which insurance do you wanna be a couple
college are doing basically pool
coverage
it's an upsell they've asked you a
question that suggests one of two
outcomes when there's really a third and
the third option is I have coverage
that's right you might already be
covered many premium travel cards come
with damage protection if you don't have
a critical coverage to be $42 whoa 1195
sounds a lot better than $42 but its
daily and adds up quickly
I have credit card insurance why am i
paying the company 1195 a day for more
insurance that's that's the question
that they need to answer Insurance
Bureau of Canada z-- Pete Carey George's
says what's happening inside this
economy location raises a lot of
questions yes what does that cover so
you damage anybody else well reputed hit
any pedestrians so we cover them so if
you want to use your personal choice
there will be a surcharge of level 95%
coverage each time a different
explanation what do you make of that
it's very confusing you don't know what
in fact they're offering you maduro
head-scratcher Pete tells us rental car
companies must insure their own fleets
and get this they can't actually sell
liability coverage so with his own auto
insurance well Ryan sills get a better
deal so I supposed to charge you for the
basic 42
I'll make attorney for you you know
what the other Ryan was charged $12 why
does this Ryan get charged even more he
pushes back my own person sure you think
I'll be useful during new cars but
Ryan's pink slip isn't good enough and
this manager takes it one step further
he taps I have my own auto insurance
yeah no I mean what do you need I need
the action points if you don't have that
with you it's a liquidation who even
carries their policy around
oh that's just it I'm an insurance and I
don't carry my insurance policy with me
I'd be very shocked and surprised that
at the last minute this is what you're
being told as a consumer it's concerning
just as concerning that extra $12 fee
keeps sneaking up on us and on hidden
camera we happen to catch it happening
again a real hit for not bringing
something unclear and buried in the
terms of economy's website
but now that we know we're determined to
beat this hidden fee now it's our turn
to pick up a car we've heard from the
two Ryan's we know what to expect and we
know that we don't need insurance so
we're gonna push back let's see what
happens
a reservation
and you're saying my insurance doesn't
have it I may not go I'm not too sure
yeah that was me at the counter knowing
that I had the endorsement I dispute
that my policy would apply in this case
here so I would just challenge that and
say no an endorsement 27 ensures your
auto policy slides over to any car you
drive including rentals our consumers
being mislead here could be a training
issue I don't know if it is someone who
is unaware of the situation and perhaps
you know or is that the regular business
practice is this how this organization
and treats every customer this economy
location tells us they don't sell
liability insurance and that staff
misspoke why are we being made to feel
like we have to get this extra coverage
if they get your consent no matter how
as long as you finally say yes under the
pressure we turn the thumbscrews tight
enough I speak fast enough I confuse you
enough I make you feel like you're going
to be stranded by the roadside with four
flat tires and no one's going to ever
help you then you might buy your
coverage at that point it kind of works
even if we don't need it even if you
don't need it be sure say our experts by
calling your insurance company before
you pick up that rental
we pick up all three cars just wait till
you see them
car expert Marc Winton inspects all of
them front of the car is you know a
place where this commonly a lot damaging
and this one you can see here there is a
lot of damage on the front plate of this
car awful lot does it pass his test yeah
big scuff mark on the bumper all the way
down to the bottom this is substantial
damage I'm surprised they actually
rented a car really with damage on it
like that if you got a car like this
would you take it no absolutely not
so we should have left this on the line
oh yes
mark does a full circle check outside
and inside and the other thing of course
start the cop and driving let's do it
it says maintenance due soon is that a
problem if you see maintenance due soon
you know that's just anxiety provoking
stuff mm-hmm
they should not be running a car like
this customers shouldn't have to deal
with this economy says most of its
vehicles are new and that light doesn't
reset because at this location they do
their own oil changes what are you
looking for I'm looking for the
ownership and insurance the car better
have it just in case I need it
good thing we checked it has a plate
permit with a sticker that's expired so
this ownership has a problem and there's
no insurance slip whatsoever so that's a
big issue he's right police tell us both
the company and the driver if pulled
over could get fined the two other cars
we find another expired ownership and
all are missing insurance papers economy
tells us sometimes customers remove
stuff and they will replace them and
there was this oh and we have something
here seems to be a petrified piece of
fruit I'll just take that out mark
shares tips for anyone who rents cars
take pictures of the mileage gas you
should report absolutely anything you
find record and report all damages and
scratches what you're doing now is
probably a much more thorough inspection
than what most consumers would do you
know what really only takes 5-10 minutes
we're on the outside of it and it's your
choice want to spend five or ten minutes
sir thousand dollars
[Music]
we rigged the cars can we take them for
a drive
[Music]
brian takes a short trip on toll road
407 a few minutes shouldn't cost too
much right we're in for a big shock
this is your marketplace the team is
back together today's the big day
Car Rental returned a is it going to be
smooth or will we be hit with sticker
shock
hi returning the card these are our
taxes apiece so there's a charge for it
sorry I'm sorry do you get a lot of
complaints about this we anxiously wait
at home base for our teams to return
with their bills so what's your total
here so it should have been no more than
150 dollars 12 yeah so it's way more
than I expected I feel they're very
sneaky there they trick you into renting
at one place and then when you're
actually charged it's a completely
different price you took the car back we
did how'd it go so a $130 quoted rental
turned into 230 that's a big jump
the additional driver fee of $40 we
expected some others were listed too but
what are these fees for we have an
energy recovery fee for total of $8 an
MTF CP of seven and seven dollars and
eighty cents a VL 8 CR fee which was $24
that was a big one
so here the vehicle licensing fee is $6
a day but other big companies are
charging $2 so the other big companies
are doing a money grab they are as well
right and these guys are beyond the
money rub George tells us that most of
these fees just go right back to rental
companies remember those few minutes
Ryan spent on the toll road just the
administer rental company what would you
say to the company be more front be more
upfront with everything extra charges
for mileage and insurance drive up the
final price for all three cars so our
team of testers found they were paying
30 even 70% more for these cars versus
what they were quoted online so that's
consistent with what the Competition
Bureau found in its investigations and
that resulted in multi-million dollar
fine
the companies so I would hope that the
bureau watches yourself and realize that
they have to dust off their old
investigation and maybe get to work
again the Competition Bureau tells us
hidden costs are a real problem and they
encourage anyone who feels misled to
file a complaint
this couple says consumers need greater
protection can't wait for a trip at
least we won't have to be renting a car
when we go away Joann wind and J su
Canon our marketplace fans their email
triggers our investigation how are you
feeling when you first booked with this
company we were feeling like we got the
best price and I was pretty excited
about that but that excitement quickly
fades when we returned the vehicle he
said oh there's a problem with your
vehicle and then he brought us outside
and showed us the damage that he was
trying to pin on us which was there when
we originally rented do you think that
there's any chance that you may have
caused the damage while driving
absolutely 100% not at all I think the
worst part he said we have to pay what
was a thousand dollars it was a thousand
dollars and it was like for held hostage
at that point what did you think when he
said that that we're getting scammed
yeah we're getting scammed here there's
no doubt about it both Ryan's share
similar stories they say the first time
they rented from this location they were
charged for damages they didn't cause
economy insists the cars were returned
damaged and denies overcharging any of
them do consumers need more protection
when it comes to renting vehicles
someone needs to help consumers like us
we're honest people we just want to rent
a car go with our families on the trip
and not go through this type of headache
don't worry
yeah and they're not alone over 1300
Google reviews for this particular
location almost all negative this
economy location says some of the bad
reviews are fake but we verify these
ones how can you have so many complaints
about the same company and they go back
years Joanne
J Ryan Jones Brian sills all rented from
this economy all say ripped off now
they're looking for some accountability
some answers
rental car ripoffs on your marketplace
we want answers from this economy
rent-a-car location misleading claims
misleading fees all caught on our
hidden-camera investigation we've been
asking for weeks for an on-camera
interview but they declined so we're
going to ask in person let's go in
Aarthi hi there I'm mocked up from CBC's
marketplace we're really hoping to talk
to you about the story we're doing as
you know we've reached out to you a few
times
Aarthi sued the owner agrees to speak
with us in her office we get to come in
and I understand that but we have given
your customers an opportunity to tell
their story on camera we want to give
you that same opportunity but I told you
that I was not comfortable are you
saying I've sent you several notes and
one is thank you yesterday as well
exclaiming on an every point that you
guys had faced we understand that but
the complaints that we are hearing from
your customers they say they feel like
they're being ripped off are you gonna
take any responsibility for being up
front with the prices the are up front
that's where the policies are out there
customers that have reached out to you
haven't read the policy it's not just
your customers that we're hearing this
from we have it on hidden camera its
standard industry fee some companies
charge something we do charge other
companies do charge these extra fees and
this locations are some of the highest
are you willing to make any changes
based on the information that we've
given you on you're not gonna change any
C's are online on that note we post
online - next time you need a rental
check out our tips on cbc.ca slash
marketplace
you